

Gardner1998 - Cell Cycle Goldbeter

Mathematical modeling of cell division cycle (CDC) dynamics.

The SBML file has been generated by MathSBML 2.6.0.p960929 (Prerelease Version
of 29-Sept-2006) 1-October-2006 15:36:36.076517.

This model is described in the article:

[A theory for controlling cell cycle dynamics using a reversibly binding
inhibitor.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/9826676)

Gardner TS, Dolnik M, Collins JJ.

Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 1998 Nov; 95(24): 14190-14195

Abstract:

We demonstrate, by using mathematical modeling of cell division cycle (CDC)
dynamics, a potential mechanism for precisely controlling the frequency of
cell division and regulating the size of a dividing cell. Control of the cell
cycle is achieved by artificially expressing a protein that reversibly binds
and inactivates any one of the CDC proteins. In the simplest case, such as the
checkpoint-free situation encountered in early amphibian embryos, the
frequency of CDC oscillations can be increased or decreased by regulating the
rate of synthesis, the binding rate, or the equilibrium constant of the
binding protein. In a more complex model of cell division, where size-control
checkpoints are included, we show that the same reversible binding reaction
can alter the mean cell mass in a continuously dividing cell. Because this
control scheme is general and requires only the expression of a single
protein, it provides a practical means for tuning the characteristics of the
cell cycle in vivo.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000008](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000008).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

